As you use more and more Docker images and containers,
you will certainly run into the need to link them up.
We need a web server, for instance,
to communicate with the database server or something like that.
So, for example,
we might have a web server that not only hits a database
server but also needs to hit a caching server and maybe
even some others potentially.
Well, normally, each container will hold its own individual functionality.
In other words, you can have a web server container,
a database container, a caching type of server container,
and maybe others as well.
So we need a way for containers to talk to each other because,
up to this point, we've only worked with single containers,
not with multiple containers kind of orchestrating things together.
Now Docker provides two different linking technologies that can be used.
The first is now referred to as legacy linking,
and you're going to see that this is just done using container names.
Under the covers, it creates what's called a bridge network,
and within that network,
you can communicate between the containers based on
the name of each of the containers, and I'll show you how all this works.
Now this particular option is still very useful.
It's still very easy, actually, to do you'll see.
And in a development environment, it's especially easy to set up.
But there is another option,
especially as you move multiple containers into staging and production areas,
and this provides even more power.
This second option involves adding containers into a custom bridge network.
Now this is a newer option compared to the legacy one anyway.
And what this entails is creating a custom bridge network,
and this is a type of isolated network,
and only containers in that network can communicate with each other.
Now this is nice because now you would have a way to create one
network for a certain set of containers to communicate,
another network for some other containers that they need to communicate,
and this allows you to divide things up a little more elegantly than
what you can do with the older legacy linking.
So throughout this module,
I'm going to walk you through, first, the legacy linking and how that works.
I'll show you some examples of getting some actual containers communicating.
Then we'll move on to using those same exact containers, but we're
going to move on to the bridge networking. And I'll show you how you
can create a custom bridge network very,
very simple, it sounds a lot harder than it really is, and how we can then
communicate amongst containers in that bridge network.
So let's go ahead and jump right in and talk, first, about
legacy linking and how we can name containers so that they can communicate with each other.